Hey, welcome, Concord.
Glad you're here.
For those who are here in Claremont and those who are joining us online and at all our campuses, and we pray today that God will do a great work Concord.
I'm Derek, I haven't met you yet, and glad to see you this morning.
Today is family worship, and one of the things I want to do, my family is in Dacula every Sunday morning, so you don't get to meet them, and so I brought a picture.
I want to show you guys that real quick and introduce our family.
If you haven't met them, if you haven't already,
But come on friends, social media, and check out my family's photos.
So here they are.
So Grant is our oldest son.
He's 21 years old at the University of Georgia.
Emma Grace, our daughter, is 15, and she is a sophomore at the Kiel High School.
My wife, Kim, we've been married 25 years this summer.
Andy is 18.
I just graduated from the Kiel High School, working as a landscaper right now.
And then me, and then everybody's favorite, PJ, or as we affectionately know him, and all the kids know him as PJ, the three-legged wonder dog.
P.J.
is awesome, and he really does.
Two front, one back, and he can run with the best of them.
And especially when I get around little kids, man, we'll take him out into a field, and the kids will always say, can P.J.
run with me, and man, we run, and we have a good time.
But I want you to see our family, and know who we are, and so they can't be here on Sundays, but glad you all are here.
Take your Bible, please, and turn to Ephesians chapter 6, verse 18.
Ephesians 6, 18.
You know, at Concord, we say that we
believe that God through His word clearly says that we are to make disciples everywhere.
Make disciples everywhere.
And of course, as we're making disciples, that includes the way we serve people, the way we live for Christ, the way we invite people to church, the way we pray with people.
But one thing I want us to focus in on today is this, undergirding everything that we do is prayer.
And I want us to look because God's word teaches us how to pray.
Jesus shows us, He models it, He shows us, but I want us to talk about this morning.
what God teaches us in His Word and His passage in a couple of verses about seven ways to pray evangelistically.
My prayer is that this might even be just a great day for each of us that God would encourage us and convict us about our prayer lives.
Seven ways to pray evangelistically.
The Apostle Paul in this passage writing to us was in prison for sharing the gospel.
The reason he was in prison was because it was illegal in the Roman government to stand up and to say, Jesus is Lord.
So as they were sorting things out, figuring out what was gonna come with Paul, Paul was writing, and he was writing to the people there, and he was writing to us.
And so Paul, in Ephesians chapter six, we're gonna read three verses, starting in verse 18.
Would you stand with me, please, for the reading of God's Word?
Ephesians six, verse 18, and following says, pray it all times in the spirit.
with every prayer and request, and stay alert with all perseverance and intercession for all the saints.
Pray also for me that the message may be given to me when I open my mouth to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel.
For this, I am an ambassador in chains.
Pray that I might be bold enough to speak about it as I should.
Let's pray together.
We do pray, God, through your word, through your Holy Spirit, you will speak to each of us today.
Lord, speak to us about prayer,
about the power of it and how to pray and Father compel us to be, as your people, to be about the business of prayer day in and day out, Father, so that we will do our part through prayer in the loss coming to faith in Christ.
And so Father, thank you for Concord, thank you for all that you're doing here.
Thank you Father for the new members who are being added to the church and God people who are coming to faith in Christ.
And we pray that we continue and we do pray today right now that you speak to us through your word
Your spirit is in Jesus and we pray.
Amen.
Please be seated.
So I was a freshman in high school playing football and that year our team ended the season 0 and 10.
I don't know if you've ever played on a totally defeated team before, but it ain't no fun.
I mean, it was awful.
The next year we improved a little bit.
We were three and seven.
The following year, we had some younger guys that were good players that came in as freshmen.
We had an older group, us, Jews and seniors that were sort of jelling together.
We had some coaches who figured out a new offense that would help us.
And also, there were some spiritual things that happened that year.
Before every gain, we had a chaplain and he was a very godly man and he would come and he would give a devotion.
And then after the devotion, we would all say the Lord's prayer together.
But it was a group of us, about eight of us on the first week that, man, God was really doing a great work in our life.
As a matter of fact, you may remember when I shared my testimony a couple of weeks ago that, man, God just gave me and other guys and young ladies that were classmates, a passion to see our friends and our classmates come to faith in Christ.
So, man, we were humbly but bold living for Jesus all through high school.
We even started and
on-campus Bible study, our sophomore year, and then our junior year, we actually started a fellowship of Christian athletes, and Steve Parr was our very first sponsor that helped.
So I was a high school student, and Steve was a youth pastor at Hebrew at the time, and we started this fellowship of Christian athletes together.
So it was that same year that these eight of us had a desire to pray together before the game, and now we didn't pray, God help us win.
Right?
I mean, you know, that's how some people pray for games.
You know, they want Clemson to beat Georgia Tech or the other way around.
They want the dogs to beat Vandy or whatever.
But we at least had the maturity to pray.
God, help us to play together as a team and to play well well.
Help us to be safe.
Help us to play in a way that would honor you.
Help us to do our best, you know, everything we do.
And lo and behold, put all these factors together and we started winning games.
By the time we got to week seven,
We're seven and oh.
And that prayer group of eight people had grown.
About half the team was praying.
I mean, ball players are superstitious.
And if something's working, they're gonna do it.
So if people are, I mean, if we're winning, they're gonna join the prayer.
But God used that.
As a matter of fact, I remember one guy in particular and there's no joke.
He was one of our offensive tackles and he was not a believer yet.
And we would go around and whoever wanted to pray could pray or just skip you or whatever if you didn't want to pray.
But I remember he literally prayed this, dear God, thank you, amen.
That was it.
That's why he prayed.
But it was awesome, right?
He was talking to God and God was listening and God was drawing him and later he came to faith in Christ.
What I want to tell you about is that God gave us such a passion to see our other players on our team to come to Christ and other classmates.
By the time I graduated from high school a year and a half later, of the 22 starters on that football team, 19,
had either come to faith in Christ or were already believers when we started.
It was in a public high school.
God did an amazing work and it was undergirded in prayer.
If we're gonna see God continue to do a great work in the communities and the towns here in North Georgia, everywhere that our church touches.
And if we're gonna see God do a great work around the world, it is gonna be undergirded in prayer.
And when we pray, we don't just pray for sick people to be healed.
We also need to pray for lost people to be saved.
And so I want us to talk this morning in this passage.
I want to give you seven ways to pray evangelistically.
If you haven't figured out already, there's seven points today.
You may not have figured that out, but I want to tell you, there's seven points.
Number one is this.
We must pray at all times.
At the beginning of verse 18, Paul says, pray at all times.
Now let me just pause and say,
If you haven't figured this out about me already, my points in my message, this is a few weeks ago, I hope that you leave going.
That is exactly what the Bible said.
My points are not always clever, but they're always clear.
I try to make them crystal clear, and I try to draw them as much as possible straight from God's Word.
Paul tells us pray at all times.
Now, there are some people, man, they get up in the morning,
I mean, their feet hit the floor, and they are talking and listening to God, and they're praying.
Some people, even before they get out of bed, I mean, it's like they begin their day, and that's a great discipline.
I mean, it's just a great way to start the day.
Other people, they particularly, when they pause for the first meal of the day, all the meals, they take time to pray.
Other people, if they get a big test at school, they are gonna stop and pray.
Other people, big thing on the job, they're gonna pray about it.
Others, you know, they encounter somebody and they get a situation, man, they will pause and pray.
Others, by the time you get to bedtime, I mean, they are drifting off to sleep, talking, and listening to God.
These are all awesome times to pray.
Do you know the Apostle Paul tells us in another place, pray without ceasing or pray continually.
It doesn't mean always hands folded, eyes closed, head bowed, praying.
It means our conversation throughout the day is a prayer to God.
A lot of listening, a lot talking.
It's a conversation throughout the day.
If you're gonna pray for lost people, if you're gonna pray for lost people to come to Christ, here's what you begin to see is that when God brings someone to mind, they may be lost and you pray for them.
God, I don't know why I just thought about Him.
I haven't thought about Him in years or God, I know I'm about to go to the grocery store or to work or whatever.
Man, I'm gonna pray for Him or her to come to faith in Christ.
Students, man, I pray for my classmates and my teachers and all these people to come to faith in Christ.
So we pray at all times.
In other words, there's never a bad time to pray.
So you need to begin to have the mind set.
I'm going to be in an attitude of prayer all the time.
One thing that's very specific that's helped me, if this will help you or not, when I'm driving down the road, I have
Man, I used to listen to music all the time, then I listen to talk radio, then I listen to sports radio.
I have turned the radio off when I'm driving.
Not just because, you know, whatever, but I mean, how many times every six minutes can you hear what the weather's gonna be?
But the bottom line for me in my life, it's been a good discipline of solitude and prayer, just some driving down the road.
And so I don't know what it is for you that you need to maybe adjust in your life so that
The world's noise is not so busy in your ears, but the God's word and the Holy Spirit through prayer.
So pray at all times.
Point number two, pray in the spirit.
Verse 18 also says, pray at all times in the spirit.
What this means is pray in sync with the spirit.
Pray in line with the spirit, which is always in line with God's word.
The Holy Spirit is always in line with God's word.
And so as you,
saturate yourself by reading God's Word, you will learn to pray in line with the Spirit.
So as you know, again, when God brings someone to mind that God doesn't want you to pray God's judgment on them, because that's, you know, Romans 12, that's up to the Lord to do.
No, no, we're praying for salvation.
We're praying God's blessings.
We're praying that God would grow people's spirits if they already know Christ, and we're gonna get to some of these things.
But we begin to realize that we pray at all times,
But we pray in the spirit and what that also means is we're not just saying words.
We're not just repeating something that is meaningless.
No, no, praying in the spirit means man, I am right in sync with God and the Holy Spirit.
So we pray at all times and we pray in the spirit.
Here's the third thing I want to see that we pray.
Not only do we pray at all times in the spirit, but thirdly, we pray for other believers.
Pray for other believers.
Paul writes it this way.
He says,
Pray it all times in the spirit with every prayer and request and stay alert with all perseverance and intercession for all the saints.
And then the way he says in verse 19, pray also for me that the message baby given to me when I open my mouth to make it known with boldness and we'll stop there for a second.
Pray for other believers.
Now I know what you may say, you may say, I do that all the time.
Anytime I hear for somebody that they're sick, I pray for them.
Anytime I hear there's a financial crisis, I'll pray for them and it's a relationship issue.
I will pray for them and pray all these things.
But did you ever think that God may want you to pray for other believers?
Paul, one of the greatest missionaries of angels we ever know, asked them, pray for him that he might be bold in sharing the gospel.
How about you ask other believers to pray for you?
And how about you?
Many of you have these things called smartphones.
And they have this feature on them called text messaging.
And when you, or Instagram, or however you communicate with the world, when you send a message to someone else like that, how about you do this?
Say, you know what?
God brought you to mind.
I know you love Jesus.
I am praying for you today that you will be a witness for Christ.
What would happen this week if we prayed for one another to be a bold witness for Christ?
And then we let each other know that we're doing that.
Man, how encouraging and how.
I mean, in touch with the power of God that we are saying, I am praying and we are praying for one another.
Paul asked for that.
He says, praying for all an intercession for all the saints and pray for me.
That group of guys that I'm talking about from our high school, these eight guys that started, man, we had each other's back.
I mean, we were always holding each other accountable.
to live for Christ and we were praying together and we were praying for one another.
And so I'm asking you, who are you praying for?
It may be the people in your community group, those may be the people that you know the best.
Maybe people in your own family, men as you're scattered each and every day.
Again, parents, you pray for your kids and you send them a text and say, okay, I know you can't read this because you're at school and you're not supposed to be on your phone.
But whenever you see this, I'm praying for you that you'll be living for Jesus today.
How encouraging is that?
praying for other believers.
Number four, praying for the lost to be drawn to Christ.
I want to ask you to turn, if you will, to John chapter six.
John chapter six.
Because truly Jesus talks about the very fact that God is the one who draws people to faith in Jesus.
It's God who draws them.
Look at John chapter six, verse 44.
John six verse 44 says, no one can come to me.
This is Jesus speaking.
No one can come to me unless a father who sent me draws him and I will raise him up on the last day.
It is God who draws people to faith in Christ.
And so if we're gonna pray at all times in the spirit,
then we are praying that the loss be drawn to Christ because we see in this passage, John 644, that it is God who draws people to faith in Christ.
And so therefore we pray in line with God's word, by his spirit, asking God to draw people to faith in Christ.
Now, speaking of drawing, so when I was a student pastor, I would encourage our students to take a piece of paper and to draw a sort of diagram.
I said like,
This is like your first period class, you know the piece of paper, your second period class, whatever.
And on that piece of paper, draw boxes and those represent the desks in your room, in your classroom.
Put your name where you sit and then put on the people's name because everybody sort of has assigned seats or regular seats, they sit in.
You know these people, are you getting to know them throughout the semester?
Find out if they're believers.
If they're a believer, then point number three is you pray for them
that they will be a witness for Christ.
If they're not a believer yet, you're praying for them to be drawn to faith in Christ.
What would happen if each of us had that kind of a chart or grid that we were thinking about the people all around us?
I mean, folks, moms and dads, grandparents, what about your neighborhood or the people in your work?
People in your work.
I mean, you're thinking about your desk or you're thinking about the people you interact with.
Maybe you're thinking about the organizational chart at your work.
And then you're like,
Hey, there's real people there, some of them are believers, some of them are not, some of them you don't know, you don't even know yet if they're a believer, but man, you're praying for them.
And so what I'm asking you today, and you go listen, I'm asking you today, I'm gonna ask you to leave this place with specific names that God's lay on your heart that this week you're gonna be praying for.
So I'm asking you even now to begin to think about and during the message, jot their name down if you're taking notes with a pen or pencil,
If you're gonna get your phone and put a text note, whatever, send yourself a memo, write it down so that you won't forget.
These are the people that God's laying on your heart to pray for.
And when you begin to do that, you begin to see the people all around you that need Jesus.
We're praying for the lost to be drawn to Christ.
It is good to pray for all those things we mentioned before, for relationships to get mended, for financial,
challenges to be met, for God to show up in big ways with all sorts of medical and health issues.
But the most important thing we can pray for is for the lost to be saved.
That they would come to faith in Christ.
And so I'm asking you, as a church family, I'm asking us if we will pray like never before.
My prayer is that even this week would be the greatest week of prayer we've ever had as Concord for the sake of the lost.
And there's been some great weeks of prayer in this church.
May we have another great week of prayer, maybe the greatest one ever, that people will come to faith in Christ.
Pray for the loss to be drawn to Christ.
Point number four is that.
Point number five.
Pray for open doors for the gospel.
Let me ask you to take your Bible and turn to Colossians chapter four and verse three.
Colossians four, verse three says, Paul writes, and again this is Apostle Paul, he says at the same time, pray also for us that God may open a door for us for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ for which I am in chains.
Do you see it right there?
Pray that God may open a door for us for the word, to speak the mystery of Christ.
Paul is praying and saying God, open the door wide open.
And let me see that the door is wide open.
Pray again, praying all the time by the spirit or in the spirit, praying for the believers, praying for the loss to be drawn to Christ, people to be drawn to Christ.
And now we're praying for open doors.
Let me ask you this.
Any of you got a new vehicle recently?
I mean, may not be brand new, but it's new to you.
Well,
I drive a black truck and I love driving a black truck I have for years.
Let's imagine for a moment that you used to drive a white sedan and now you drive a black truck.
You will notice that you begin to see black trucks everywhere.
You didn't realize there were so many black trucks on the road until you started driving one.
It's just now your eyes are open and you notice what we're asking is in the same way God helped me to see the open doors all around for the gospel.
There are open doors every day.
And you pray and say, God, help me to pray it all times.
In the spirit, praying for other believers.
And man, if you're praying for other believer over there, and you're praying for the loss to come to Christ, God opens the door wide open as somebody just talks to you at work, at school, and you begin to realize this is an open door.
It's an open door to serve someone.
It's an open door to maybe invite someone to church.
It's an open door to pray with someone.
It's an open door, perhaps to even share the gospel.
So we're praying, God, you open the doors.
Paul encourages us in Colossians 4 that we pray for open doors.
So the loss being drawn to Christ, and then the doors wide open, number six is this.
Pray for boldness in sharing the gospel.
If you will, go back to Ephesians chapter six, verse 19.
Verse 19, he says, pray also for me,
that the message may be given to me when I open my mouth to make known with boldness the mystery of the gospel.
For this, I am an ambassador in chains.
Pray that I might be bold enough to speak about it as I should.
You know what many people would have prayed if they were in Paul's position?
God, get me out of jail and then I'll be bold, right?
Most people to pray, God, get me out of this circumstance and then I'll be bold.
Paul knew that he was in the circumstances he was because God had allowed him to be there.
He knew that he needed to be bold for the gospel and if it meant being in jail, he was going to do it.
This may surprise you, I'm actually very grateful to God that the Apostle Paul went to jail.
You say, Derek, that's sort of...
messed up, sort of wicked.
But here's why.
The Apostle Paul was a traveling evangelist and missionary church planter.
He was busy starting churches all throughout Roman Empire.
Had he not been put in prison, he may not have ever paused long enough to write.
But through his writing and God through the Holy Spirit inspired
these things that he wrote down, we have many of the letters that we now know is a word of God.
If Paul wouldn't have been put in prison, he would not, in my view, have taken time to write.
So I'm grateful to God that Paul endured those circumstances, was a witness for Christ there, and then took the opportunity to write these things down.
When Paul did, again, he didn't say, God, get me out of the circumstance, he said, God,
Help me to be bold.
Now, sure, there's wisdom.
You're not going to be brash.
You're not going to be the kind of person that's a bull in the china shop.
You're not going to be a person who, through your delivering your mannerisms or just, you know, offensive and things like that.
But boldness is saying Jesus is the answer.
Jesus died for you on the cross.
Jesus will forgive you of your sins.
Jesus rose to the dead.
Jesus can give you eternal life.
Jesus calls people to salvation.
We are unashamed of the gospel.
It's a power of God and salvation.
And so we pray for boldness in sharing the gospel.
One of our missionaries served for many years with the International Mission Board.
He goes by the name of Nick Ripken.
He wrote a book called The Insanity of God.
If you have not read this book, I highly recommend it, The Insanity of God.
He was a missionary in Africa, in Somalia in particular.
He's actually a missionary there during the period of time that the events that are chronicled in the movie Black Hawk Down took place.
So that was when he was there as a missionary.
And he talks about the extreme persecution that the Somalis in particular had to endure for the sake of the gospel.
His own family went through lots of trials by being there, some very, very, very, very difficult to endure.
He served in Somali for many years in his family.
He literally traveled the world meeting persecuted believers and hearing from them and I mean in Russia and China and all sorts of nations hearing them and their stories of faith in Christ.
And consistent themes just emerged and you'll read about them in the book but one of the things that wasn't there was God give me out of this persecution.
A consistent theme is God help me to endure this persecution and help me to be bold for the gospel.
Is that you?
Is that me?
Hey, we need to say God help me to be bold like Paul was for the gospel.
He was an ambassador in chains, literally.
Can you imagine being the Roman guard chained to Paul?
What are you going to talk about today?
Probably not talking about football.
You're probably gonna be talking about Jesus all day long.
And Paul was a witness for Christ.
Pray for boldness since you're in the gospel.
Number seven, literally pray for people to be saved.
Pray for people to be saved.
Romans 10, 13 says, those who call upon the name of the Lord shall be saved.
So if you're praying all these things, now, let's think about it.
We're gonna get them all on the board here in a second.
So we pray at all times.
So you're aware and you're thinking about God literally
24-7.
And when you're awake, when you're thinking about it, so we're praying at all times.
We're praying in the Spirit.
We're not just saying words, we're not just doing some mental gymnastics.
No, no, we're praying in the Spirit in line with God's Word through His Holy Spirit.
And we're praying for other believers.
A lot of things in their lives, but we're praying also for them to be a witness for Christ.
And then we're praying for the lost people to be drawn to Christ.
We're praying for open doors for the gospel.
And then we're praying, and we're praying God, give us boldness to share.
Well, if you're praying all those things, let's get people across the finish line.
Let's pray for them to come to Christ.
Pray believing, because there's some people you say, I don't know, because think about this.
You know some people and you say, man, they're a good person.
They're a good person.
Let me tell you, good people don't go to heaven.
Say people go to heaven.
because a good person's got a whole bunch of sin that needs to be forgiven.
But then on the other hand, you got people who are just so lost that it's obvious to everyone.
Now you might be tempted to go, I could pray for them, but they'll never get saved.
I bet many of you, you could tell me testimony of somebody that you said, that person was so far from God, it seemed like everybody else had given up on them, but God didn't give up on them.
Other people were praying for them, and now they are a believer.
Nobody is too lost that God can't save them.
He goes after the lost sheep.
Hey, we need to pray for the lost to be saved.
Pray for people to be saved.
And so as we wrap it up today, let me ask you, who are the people?
I told you a few minutes ago, I was gonna ask you this.
Who are the people?
I literally want you to write it.
This is not like just my talking.
I want you to write it down.
I want you to text yourself, however you need to get a message to yourself to remember to resolve this week.
that you will be praying.
You'll be praying for other believers, as we already talked about, but you're gonna be praying for the loss to be saved.
And then let that list grow.
But I'm asking you this week to resolve every day as part of your time of prayer, that you would pray evangelistically.
For other believers to be witness, for God opened doors, and for the loss to be saved as we share Christ.
Can we bow together in prayer?
So the invitation today,
First of all, it's for believers.
It's for believers to pray.
You may want to come and pray here at the front.
I'm actually gonna ask if, like if you're one of the leaders of our church, you say, I'm one of the leaders.
Then when we stand and sing in just a moment, would you lead the way and just come here to the front?
And just with the people God's place on your heart, would you just pause for a moment and pray?
pray for them to come to know Christ.
Pray for the believers that you're going to be praying for, that there'll be a witness for Christ.
So in a moment when we stand, I know on many Sundays we don't have a lot of movement necessarily, but I pray that today people would step out.
If you're a leader of our church, I'm just asking you to come and just take a moment and pray at the front.
There are others who are here and you need to give your life to Christ.
You realize
that Jesus died for you on the cross to pay the penalty for your sin.
And He rose from the dead and you believed that.
And you're ready to turn away from your sin and trust in Christ.
And maybe even right now you'd pray and say, Jesus saved me.
I commit my life to you.
Hey, if you need to give your life to Christ today, if you need to be saved, when we stand and others are coming to pray, staff and some are all our leaders, hey,
I'm gonna ask you if you're giving your life to Christ today to come to one of us who's standing here at the front and just say to me and one of other pastors and leaders, today I'm giving my life to Christ.
There may be others who you say, I've been saved but I've never been baptized.
Let us help you get that set up soon, come and let us know that and we will help you with that.
A third may be, as we've had recently in some of our services, people coming forward and just saying,
Today, man, this is the church family I need to be a member of.
I need to be all in.
And so maybe you, when we stand in a moment, maybe you want to come to me one of the leaders and say, pastors and leaders and say, I want to be a member.
So again, the invitation, first of all, is for believers to come to the front.
Our leaders in particular, but anybody can come from the youngest of the oldest, and let's pray.
Let's make this be a place of prayer.
And then also, again, for those who need to be saved, baptized.
soon, or those who want to join the church.
I want to pray, and in Muaystand, I'm inviting you to come.
Lord Jesus, thank you for your love for us, thank you for your word.
I pray that you'd help us each to respond now as your cons to respond.
Some for prayer, evangelism, evangelistic prayer, some for salvation, some for baptism,
It's some for church membership as your leadness.
God help us each to be obedient to what you're calling us to do.
In Jesus' name we pray.
Amen.
Please stand.
Leaders, would you lead the way?
Let's pray and everyone else you come.